# API 101: Why are APIs useful and what are they?

## Overview

This course is for everybody who is interested in why the concept of an Application Programming Interface (API) has become popular today. We start by looking at examples, move on to explaining some of the basic concepts and types of APIs, and finally discuss how today's organizations are moving towards APIs.


## Target Audience

The target audience of this course is anybody with an interest in why APIs are useful, what they are used for today, and how they work. This course is not intended for primarily technical audiences, but understanding the general concepts of computers, computer networks, and programming will help to better put the course contents into context.


## Learning Objectives

Learners will understand why APIs are important for today's economy and organizations. They also understand how APIs work at a high level, and how they are different from prior ways of architecting IT ecosystems. Finally, learners will also have an understanding of the steps necessary for an organization to realize the potential of APIs.


## Contents

- Three examples for API usage
 - APIs for integration
 - APIs for automation
 - APIs for reuse
- APIs allow applications to collaborate
 - How to APIs differ from other approaches?
 - What makes an API useful? 
 - What makes an API usable? 
- How do APIs work?
 - Private/partner/public APIs
 - Synchronous vs. asynchronous APIs
 - REST APIs as one example and how they relate to the Web
 - Why it makes sense to have an "API catalog"
- APIfying organizations (Moving to "API First")
 - From vision to strategy to program to platform
 - API product teams and API platform teams
 - Measuring what matters: KPIs for APIs
